In this video we're going to be
making up actors from multiple meshes. You'll basically import the
tank in 4 static mesh parts, assemble the parts using sockets,
and then, we'll create a tank blueprint and test. By the end of it, you'll have
something looking something like this. An untextured, but otherwise pretty cool
tank, and a corresponding blueprint and all of the parts assembled properly. So, let's go and make that happen!
So, let's finally put this tank together! In the resources
attached to this lecture, you should find the Battle Tank, well the
TankParts.zip file. If you open that up you'll have a bunch of
.fbx's. So, let's get those into Unreal. There's a few ways to do this. You can
either be in Unreal, and in your Content Browser you can right-click...
In fact, let's make a folder for the tank. Make a folder for the tank,
and then, in that folder, we can right-click and say Import to/ Game/
Tank folder. We can do that! Point it at the Downloads,
TankParts, and then, we could select them all. That's one way or we could have dragged them in, but I'm
going to do it the way of just selecting. So, I'm importing into the
new Tank folder. I'm going to use the default import settings.
Ideally, if you're working with a model, that will set things up so you don't have to mess around here.
And then, we're going to get 4
static meshes, that don't have bones and things, in here. There they
go! There's actually some materials with them; we could delete those materials because we're going
to recreate our own materials later. So, ditch the materials, and you can even
force delete them, it doesn't matter. And now, let's take a look at these meshes one at a
time. So, we've got a barrel. You can dock this barrel to the top. There it is,
nice sitting there perfectly OK.
What else do we have? We have a body, and there it is sitting on the origin.
The 00 point's about the middle of the bottom of the tank there.
We'll see why that matters in a little bit. Let's take a look at the rest, we've got some tracks,
again sitting on the origin there, and a turret sitting
on the ground. And that's all good stuff!
And the barrel is also sitting on the ground. Good! So, I'm just
checking that all of these models are sitting, so that the position that we want
to attach them to something else is at 00, is at the origin. And that's how
your models need to be specified from your designer for Unreal. Certainly
if you're using Blender, there's no way to bring in the pivot points,
so we want our models to be done like this. The tank sits so it
centers in the middle there. The track, the center of the track is in the middle.
The position that the turret here is going to connect to the
tank is sitting on the origin, so that's important, but we've done all that for you. So, basically
import those meshes and we're good to go. Alright, so now we're going to make, in this
same Tank folder, we're going to make ourself a new basic
Blueprint Class. OK, so create a basic asset Blueprint Class in the Tank
folder. Now, what's it going to be based on? Let's have a think about this. Is it an actor? Well,
an actor doesn't have enough coming with it, because
it doesn't allow for possession and receiving from input for a controller. So, if we base
it on an Actor we would have to do a load of stuff that is already done for us, in the
Pawn, remembering that the Pawn inherits from the Actor and the Character
inherits from the Pawn. It's like a family tree, remember, so
as we go down from Actor to Pawn to Character, we're getting more and more. But a Character
gives us too much. It's all about AI, which yeah we're going to use some AI,
but we're going to use very simplified AI. But if you look at this description, we're not going
to be using, you know it's not a vertically oriented player that can walk, jump,
fly, and swim yeah. It's just too much for a tank, so Pawn is the
appropriate class to base it on. So, there you go! Now, let's call it Tank
_BP. Oops, it doesn't matter if you missed, just rename...
F2, by the way, will also rename for you. So, there's
the Tank_BP. Great! Now, let's open it up and make sure
it's docked. It is, i.e. along the top here. Now later,
we can reparent this class. Now remember, of course, if you don't like the way that toolbar looks,
remember you can right-click up or left-click here rather, and you then get the
handle and then you can drag that handle along the top if you need to. So,
like so, alright and then you can hide that again.
Now remember, later in the class settings, we're going to be able to change the parent class from a Pawn,
there it is, to something that we create ourselves called a Tank.h but not yet.
Let's just build the tank for now. Alright, so in the spirit of building the
tank, let's go ahead and get on with it. Let's show you how to do it, and then, you can come in and finish
it off. So, we're going to add a static mesh to the tank, I'm going to call it Tank.
There you go! I'm going to go and choose the tank body
static mesh, like so. So there it is! This is the beginnings
of our tank. Now, in order to put the turret on the tank, in the middle
of this, we're going to use something called a socket for positioning. So, I'm going to add a socket.
Now, there are bugs with sockets, I warn you, so watch carefully.
The way you add the socket is, you add the socket to the tank body
mesh. So, we can find the mesh with the little icon here,
or we could, so that by the icon here I'm saying in the Details Tab under
Static Mesh. Right there you've got Browse To; that takes you to it
in the Content Browser. OK, so if we open up the mesh here...
Remember the purple thing is the collision mesh, it's generated as quite a sensible
one, so we'll leave that for now. We create a socket. Now be careful, don't rename it now.
If you rename it now, the bug that's in this version of Unreal will stop it from working.
So, just create it, call it Socket. Then, we're going to go and choose ourselves a
preview mesh, this allows us to position the socket. So, it's the turret
that we are positioning, so choose the turret as the preview mesh there.
Then, if you drag the socket up, you see the turret comes with it. How cool is that?
So, this is your opportunity now to get the socket in the right place, so with
the socket selected, you just get it to where it should be. I think it's about 150
in Z. There you go, it looks pretty good! Now,
if you want to be able to rename the socket, don't do it yet. You need to
Clear the preview, like so,
from the dropdown to Clear. Now, you can rename the
socket to Turret. I know I know, it's terrible isn't it! Now make
sure you save your blueprint. You can see it's not saved because there's a star there,
and then, we have done the first thing we need to do. Cool!
Nice! OK, let me show you that again for reinforcement, then, I think I'll get
you to do that tracks. So now, we're going to add another static mesh. Note
curiously that if you try and add one, it's going to try and add one using the same
tank_fbx static mesh, and that's because it's selected here in
the Content Browser. If you deselect it and go back to the tank blueprint,
you can now just add an empty static mesh, which probably makes more sense.
Call it the Turret. Now importantly, we child the Turret by dragging under
the tank like this. Now, go and find the Turret
and we're nearly there, but the Turret is hidden, especially if we go to
Wireframe mode, you'll be able to see this. There that Turret is
hidden inside the tank. OK that's OK, that's what we expect at this point. What we want
to do is to then say to the Turret, your parent
socket here is the turret socket that we put on the tank body,
and boom, it snaps to it! You get the idea. Pretty cool hey!
Alright, so that is the turret done. Now, what I want you to
do is to go ahead and do the same magic for the barrel. So,
your challenge is as follows. Import the barrel, basically.
Import the .fbx file, it's already done for you. Create a socket on the turret.
You can eyeball its position and also use the preview mesh, but remember
the tricks. Remember that you don't rename the socket until you've added the
preview mesh, positioned it, then you remove the preview mesh, then you can rename your socket. I'm
sorry, on Unreal's part, that that's the case. Create the child
and link it and set the socket and just check it all looks and
rotates OK. So go ahead, pause the video, and see if you can get the barrel setup now.
OK welcome back! So, let's do this barrel thing! Remember with nothing
selected over here, or if you like, with the barrel selected over here in the Content
Browser, you can add yourself a static mesh it will have a reference to the barrel
then. I'm going to just call it Barrel. Drag
it under the Turret. Now, that's on it's way!
Now, does the Turret currently have a socket? It doesn't does it? So, we're going to add a
socket to the Turret. I'm going to use the barrel as the
preview mesh, then move the socket to where we want it to
be. Now, you may want to be rotating this to check that it
works. Yeah, that looks pretty good about there. So, my position for your
reference is at X is 100, and let's call it 110, nice round
numbers and that the Z is at say 13, something like that.
Just going to have a slightly closer look, make sure it looks reasonably good here.
The designer will kill us if we put it in the wrong place. I think it's too low personally, so
I'm going to move that socket up to say 15
and 20 and 22. [Laughs]
OK, at about 22 it's looking about right again. Check it rotates.
That bit that sticks out of the bottom is going to go inside of the model, so we don't mind,
and it can go low enough. Good! OK! So, I'm going to leave that there like
that. Now, that socket, we can remove
the preview mesh. Clear the preview mesh, like so,
and then, we can now rename it to barrel.
Horrible I know but it's what it is. Save it, make sure you save it. Back to the tank.
Now, we go to the Barrel and say, what's your parent socket? Well,
now you can say here it's the Barrel.
Now, if your Barrel ends up on the floor like this, that's because at some point Unreal
has changed the default location of the Barrel. The location of
the Turret should be 0 0 0, and the Barrel should be
0 0 0, relative to the socket. So, I've clicked Reset
so we're at 0 0 0, and now we have things positioned as we wanted them. Let's check it all
works. If, for example, I rotate here the
Turret the Barrel is going with it. That's cool! And of course, I can rotate the Barrel as we did in the
preview. Great, we have a tank pretty much
together! I'm just going to pout the tracks on now. That's a relatively simple job. Now, the tracks,
of course, are connected directly to the tank. So, let's go to the
Track, back to the Tank blueprint, add ourself
a track, call it Left
Track. Then, it's a
job of positioning it. So, I'm going to select Left Track, go into the View
Port, get my W key shortcut.
Now, we need a Left Track socket. Don't try
and position it yet. Remember, we want a Left Track socket on the
tank itself, right, so we go to the tank body.
We create a socket called left track or right track, I'm going left track, so
Left Track. I'm going to select a preview mesh
which is the track, which will allow me to position this track, so
here we go. Now, I made the mistake
didn't I? I renamed the socket before I
moved it, and because of this nasty bug it doesn't work. So, if it happens to you, delete it,
create a new socket, leave it named as it was, as I told you to, and then, I
ignored my own advice. Add the track in, position
it, so we need to look a bit more carefully to do that. It's still called Socket.
And I might position this more finely, at a future
point, but I think that roughly right is good enough here.
But I'll get you some figures that you can use, if you just want to use my figures.
Again, you might be using your own tank model, so my figures
are here for you, if you care. There you go! So, let's say about
30 -160 for round numbers
and about -6 in the Z. OK, that's
where I think the socket, the left socket should be. Now, remember you need to clear
the preview mesh, before then renaming it Left Track.
How do I know it's left? Because the front of the tank or the back
of the tank has these barrels on it, here these things. OK,
so that's the Left Track. For the Right Track, I want to do something very similar. I'm going to try just
duplicating it, and that should work actually, because
I don't need the preview mesh for this, because all I'm doing is looking at the
Y coordinate and just setting that to the opposite,
so the only things that change are the Y minus some tiny floating point error there.
Good OK, rename Right Track. Good, so we've got
a Left Track and a Right Track socket on the tank. Let's save that! Back to the Tank
blueprint. Now, the Left Track should be very simply attached to
the Left Track socket.
Now, the reason it's not showing up is because it can't find a Left Track socket here,
because we haven't yet childed the track to the tank. Once it's a child of the tank,
the Left Track socket will be available, and we want to
Dupliate this guy, call it Right Track, and just the
only thing that changes is it's socket, it should be the Right Track. Look at that, we have a tank.
It's a miracle! OK, I'm just going to compile this
blueprint, Save All, and as a final pièce de résistance, if
you like, I'm going to find the Tank blueprint and drag it into the world and look at that,
a tank in the world. We can look at it, we can move
it around, we can do what we like. We can't rotate its barrel from here because it's a single piece actor
once it's in the world. I think I've got a track in the wrong place? No I haven't,
we're good! So, there you go, we have a tank! Awesome!